---
title: E.D.D.I.E.
description: My Second 48-Hour Game Jam
author: Jan
date: 2022-06-17
categories: [3. Game Development, Collaborations]
tags: [game development, sound design, composition, sound design, c#, fmod]
---

🕹️[Check out my Itch.io page](https://jphuss.itch.io/) | 🎮 [Check out my other projects](https://janhuss.github.io/categories/)

<iframe src="https://itch.io/embed/1663777" width="552" height="167" frameborder="0"><a href="https://jphuss.itch.io/eddie">E.D.D.I.E by Jan Huss, Alex de la Cour</a></iframe>

# Introduction

_E.D.D.I.E_ holds a **special place in my heart**. After the success of _[Oh, Wrong Number!]()_, we decided to take on one more game jam before university started again. This time, we entered the Wowie Game Jam 2022, another 48-hour challenge, where the theme was "Collaborate with AI."

At the time, we had yet to explore the vast world of AI, so we decided to put our own spin on the theme. Instead of coding an advanced AI system, we built a game where a small robot, E.D.D.I.E., is unable to react to its surroundings. The player must help him reach the finish line using the provided items.

We thought this was a unique take—until a friend pointed out that we had essentially created Lemmings. Funnily enough, we unknowingly developed a similar game in the same city where Lemmings was originally made!

E.D.D.I.E has a very special place in my heart. Following our success in "Oh, Wrong Number!", we decided to take on one more game jam in 2022 before university started again. We took part in the Wowie Game Jam 2022, another 48 hour game jam, in which our prompt was "Collaborate with AI". As we were yet to discover the vast world of AI, we decided to put our own spin on it and build a game in which a little robot is incapable of reacting to its dangerous surroundings and it is up to the player to help poor E.D.D.I.E to the finish line by utilising the items provided. We thought we were quite original with this game until a friend pointed out that we had built the game "Lemmings". Quite fitting for that we developed a similar game in the same city.

My contributions of the project was to create the music and SFX, implement these into FMOD and to code some of the mechanics.

Once again, we were successful in completing the game and we proved ourselves that our team work and dynamic was incredibly efficient.

